Welcome back in this lesson I want to do a quick overview of a number of the JavaScript global functions.
So let's set up some variables.
The first one I'm going to set up as a.
And give it a value so a numeric value and then this one will be a string value.
So this one can be hello world and variable see.
So let's say equal variable c and we're going to equal it to a Web site address.
So the Web site address whatever web site address.
So this is just for the sake of having some type of content.
And let's give it ID equals 100 and
an equals 500.
So we've got a longer string value so I know this is actually referring to anything real.
But what I wanted to show you is some of the builtin global functions that can handle and rewrite these
so we can code it and decode it using javascript one more will equal it to the string value representation
of 400.
So now let's go back out into javascript and we're going to try some of the global functions that are
available in Javascript.
So there are a number of them and we already saw this one before.
So is NAND basically that gives us the ability to return a boolean value to check to see if a value
is a number.
So we see that a is not a number.
So do you think that the is a number.
And if you look closely we've got the strings around there but we know that javascript and its flexibility
even if you've got a value of d at 400 sometimes that treats it as a number and we see that
it in fact does see it as a number.
So if we do another value.
So let's do see and we see that C is true because this is not a number.
So basically we're checking to see if it's a number and if we do typeof.
So if we do type of d we see that D gets turned into a string.
So let's do D.
And we already saw this earlier where we can convert an object value into a number.
So let's grab the D and we're going to convert it into a number.
So now if we do type of d We're going to see that the type now is a number.
So we're actually able to convert and change the string.
There's another one that we can do as well.
So I can actually convert d back in to.
So just as I converted into a number I can convert it back into a string.
So now if I do type of d we see that it's back.
Now as a string value.
So if we want to get the value and we want D to be treated as an integer we can also use parse IMT.
So this is another way that you can take a D and you can use it as a number.
So I see that the return of D is now an integer.
So we can actually return it back as an integer as well so this is very similar to what we're doing
with number and if we want to do that we can do that as well.
So it's just important to get used to that.
There's all these global functions that provide additional functionality into your data and there's
one more that I wanted to go through and this one is kind of long so I'm going to just do it within
the variables and I'm going to take variable E and I can take you r l and what I'm going to do to you
are l.
So sometimes when you're passing values you need to encode it.
So you need to take a U R L and or a U R II and encode it so that it escapes some of these characters
that you might not necessarily want to pass in.
So let me show you what the result is.
And the method for that is and code you are component.
So basically what it's going to do is it's going to code it into a you or a format.
So let me go back and let's refresh the page.
And so what do you think is going to look like.
And let's actually let's update the value to see because that's what our value is.
So refresh that one more time.
So we know that C looks like this.
And what do you think it looks like.
So we see that E all of these characters have now been converted and it's been encoded.
So it's you or I has been encoded.
And just as we encoded it we can also decode it.
So the decoding for the you are a component is a set of code.
All we have to do is decode and that will actually decode it so we decode e go back out refreshed the
page.
So now let's see what it looks like and I'll see what f looks like.
So f is the decoded version of E.
So basically what this does is this allows us to escape punctuation of characters.
And also if we had some spaces in here it would also encode that as well.
So if for instance we had a number of spaces in here.
This type of value we've got spaces and we can't get to that.
You are l.
But if you want to go to the U R L we could use the encoded version.
So let me refresh that and let me show you what C looks like.
So C looks like that he looks like this.
So we get that percentage 20 instead of spaces.
So we get to escape out of all of those characters that typically wouldn't be able to be passed via
this type of format.
So what I want you to do now is try it for yourself encode and decode your eyes.
So create a variable for your favorite you or I you can encode it and decode it.
And then also gets familiar with some of the other global functions that are available within javascript.